[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> ROBERT PHOENIX: Welcome back
to yet another edition of "The
Eleventh House."
I'm Robert Phoenix,
and today, we're
going to be talking about
two planets that represent
the masculine and the
feminine or the masculine
and the feminine depending
upon which side of the camera
you're on.
Of course, it's Venus and Mars.
And just recently, Venus and
Mars-- and then, particularly
Mars currently--
have been involved
in some pretty interesting
celestial activity.
Venus went into Capricorn
in December of last year
and just recently
came out of it.
There was a retrograde period
of Venus in Capricorn as well.
Mars is in the sign of Libra
and will be in the sign of Libra
until, I believe,
June of this year.
And of course, it currently is
also in a retrograde period.
So we're going to look at
both Venus and Mars today
and what they mean
for you in terms
of both attraction
and the expression.
And we're also going to
look at some Venus and Mars
phenomena that has
occurred recently
and also throughout
history as well.
So why don't we
start off with Venus?
You know, it's
pretty interesting
that in our culture,
Mars holds the greatest
amount of imagination.
When we think of the planet that
has probably the most cinematic
import, it's almost always Mars.
It's about invasions from
Mars or the colonization
of Mars, which is what
we're talking about.
Currently, there's
a group of people
who have signed
on to go to Mars.
There's a documentary
film about their lives.
So Mars really grips
our consciousness
while Venus is slightly distant
and isn't really talked about
or addressed very much in
terms of popular culture.
And yet, it's an
incredibly powerful planet
as it relates to astrology.
Venus is the planet
of relationship.
And in many ways, it's
the planet of attraction.
Where you have Venus in your
chart and what sign it's under
will connotate how
you interrelate
with other people on
a relational level.
So we might get into
a little bit of that,
but let's just jump
into Venus here.
So these are the planets of
attraction-- Venus and Mars.
Venus/Aphrodite
represents both attraction
and the nature and
quality of relationships,
which I just said basically.
Occasionally, it could represent
one's aesthetic relationship
with their physical reality and
surroundings, which is true.
So one of the
things that you may
want to look at
with your own chart
is to understand where Venus is
and what sign it's in and even
what house it will
be in as well.
Because then, you'll have a
better understanding of, A,
the types of relationships
that you enjoy
and like to have in your life
and how you can use that energy
and modality of Venus to be more
effective in a relationship.
For instance, I
have Venus in Libra.
And Venus in Libra likes to
create harmony and synergy
and balance and mediation.
So that's generally
how I relate to people.
And the reason why-- and
this is the secret of Venus--
is because Venus
will show you how
you want others to
relate to you as well.
So for instance, if you
have Venus in Libra--
like I do-- you will relate
to people in that fashion
because you would like to
have people relate back to you
in the same way.
So with Venus in
Libra, we're going
to have a civil discourse.
We could talk about art.
We could go out.
We can eat really nice
food, have drinks,
and life is one merry event,
but aesthetically pleasing.
Now, let's say you have
Venus in the sign of Scorpio,
then how you would
address other people--
deal with other people--
would be through intensity
because Scorpio is intense.
It likes to feel.
So Venus in Scorpio would
create relationships
in a timbre of
relating in such a way
that the other person
would either be attracted
to that style of relating or be
repelled by it because Scorpio
is quite black and white.
So that's an example of
how Venus aspects Scorpio
and how it manifests in the
Venus in Scorpio component
in one's chart.
Let's use another example.
For instance, how
about Venus in Pisces?
Venus in Pisces would
be very, very different.
Pisces is very diffuse.
Pisces is all-inclusive,
and it can
be very, very
poetic and artistic.
So people who have
Venus in Pisces
would have a wide
range of friends.
They would have
people that could
be artists and
visionaries and people
that may be on the fringe
of society as well.
There would be very little
discrimination between castes
or classes within a
society or culture.
And there would be sort
of a poetic idealization
or a poetic romanticism
around people
and how they relate
to the individual.
Why?
Because a person who
has Venus in Pisces
would like that as part
of their social contract
as well-- to be accepted for
the entirety and the totality
of who they are.
So we can see not only
the type of people
that we attract through
Venus but also how we
want to be received and treated
by others through Venus as
well.
So we can see a person's
needs and desires.
They can be determined
by the location of Venus
in the chart via
placement and sign.
We just talked
about that as well.
Venus can also represent
the emotional disconnect
in relationships, too.
So for instance, if
I have Venus in Libra
and I'm trying to relate
to you in a fair, balanced,
sympathetic, synergistic
kind of way and, let's say,
you have Venus in
Capricorn, you may
think that the style of relating
that I'm sharing with you right
now might be superficial,
trivial, or light.
And what you want, really,
with Venus in Capricorn
is you want a relationship
that's important.
You want a relationship that'll
help you get ahead in life.
You want a relationship
that theoretically
would last a very long time.
So people who have
Venus in Capricorn
would be into
long-term planning.
They would see somebody
and say, hey, look.
I want you to be
a part of my life.
I am picky about who I choose
to be a part of my life.
Why?
Because my relationships are
long-lasting and enduring.
And you've got Venus in Libra.
And right now, all you want
to do is go to the coffee shop
and talk about poetry
or art or life.
And I've got a 401(k)
and a family to plan.
So there can be
emotional disconnect
as it relates to
the various signs.
Usually, we see
that in opposition
or in a square to Venus.
However, it is not a
static condition or a state
since Venus is always
being aspected in transit
as well as occupying new signs
through the progressed chart.
Now, I guess I used Venus
in Capricorn for a reason
because-- I didn't
really think about it.
But in my progressed chart, I
now have Venus in Capricorn.
So I've literally gone
from Venus in Libra,
and it has skipped--
well, it didn't skip.
It's gone through the
sign of Sagittarius,
and now it's in the early
degrees of Capricorn.
So even though I
have the foundation
for Venus in relationship
with my chart,
my progressed Venus in
the sign of Capricorn
means that I'm
thinking a lot more
seriously about relationships.
Again, I'm thinking
a bit more seriously
about who I relate with and
sort of the long-term value
of relating as well.
So I guess I just
sort of subconsciously
drew that out of
my psyche because I
was going to talk about that.
I didn't really
think about that.
But Venus in the birth sign
gives us the basic formation
of emotional needs and
signs of relationships.
So your Venus is
always been aspected.
That's number one.
That's how you can alter or open
or channel various influences,
degrees, and energies
as it relates
to your own natal Venus.
It's not static.
And again, over time,
view the progressed chart.
Sun, mercury, moon, and
Venus, roughly about a degree
per year.
A little bit slower on Venus.
The further out Venus
and Mars you get,
the slower the degrees are
with the progressed chart.
But eventually, over
time, your Venus
will shift into another sign.
And over the course of a
lifetime, two other signs.
I've lived half my
life-- theoretically,
if I'm going to
be 100 years old.
I've had Venus go
through two signs.
It's in Capricorn,
and it will probably
stay there until I
take my final breath.
Here we go.
Here's another aspect
of Venus, which
I thought was quite
interesting since we're
talking about Venus.
This was the transit of
Venus, which took place
in 2012-- June 5th
and 6th of 2012.
And what's interesting
about the transit of Venus
is that it's not
going to take place
for like another 104
years, but it flips.
So the next time the
Venus transit takes place,
Venus will be in the
sign of Sagittarius.
But this time it's in Gemini.
So it flips every time
there's the Venus transit.
So it was at 16 and
15 degrees Gemini.
So it was going retrograde.
That's part of the transit.
It's going back over the sun.
And the Sabian symbol
for these degrees
is actually really interesting.
Now, some of you may not know
what the Sabian symbols are.
I'm going to give you a crash
course in the Sabian symbols.
Back in the early part
of the 20th century,
there was a woman by the
name of Elsie Wheeler.
She was a psychic medium.
She was wheelchair-bound.
And she was friends
with a fellow
by the name of Marc Edmund
Jones, who was an astrologer.
And Marc Edmund Jones
wanted to come up
with a system that
had an image-- almost
like an archetypal
image-- associated
with every degree of the zodiac.
So 360 images for
the entire zodiac.
And he wanted to use
Elsie Wheeler, who
was a psychic medium, in
order to get these images.
And so since she was
bound to a wheelchair
and couldn't walk around
all that much, how they did
this was that they went to
Balboa Park in San Diego
and she literally channeled
the Sabian symbols
over the course of a weekend
in a car in Balboa Park
to Marc Edmund Jones.
And so what she was doing is
she was just kind of randomly
coming up with these images
as it related to a degree
that Marc Edmund Jones
had in his possession.
And then, he would sort of
doublecheck and psychically
fact check her imagery.
And as a result, we
have the Sabian symbols
thanks to Elsie Wheeler
and Marc Edmund Jones.
And there are a
number people who
have done some really
good work, including
Dane Rudhyar, whose
interpretation of the Sabian
symbols is terrific.
You know, I think that
the best person currently
who knows the Sabian
symbols inside and out
is the Australian
astrologer Lynda
Hill who has a strong
personal/spiritual connection
with Elsie Wheeler and has
done a lot of research on her.
And you can look up
Lynda Hill online.
In fact, she has the
website sabiansymbols.com
and the author of 360
Degrees Of Wisdom.
So Sabian symbol for the 16th
and 15th degrees of Gemini
is pretty interesting.
A woman activist in an emotional
speech dramatizing her cause.
Now, if you go back in time to
the 5th and 6th of June, 2012,
when the transit of
Venus was happening,
if you were on Facebook
and you're on Twitter
or you were following any
of the astrological blogs
or consciousness or
new thought blogs,
everybody was talking
about it being
the return of the goddess,
the rebirth of the goddess.
It was this infusion of
goddess and feminine-- Venusian
energy that was coming into our
lives at that point in time.
And what's fascinating
is is the Sabian symbol,
which was created for these
degrees many years ago,
actually kind of
resonates with that.
So what we have here through
the Venus transit or the transit
of Venus is the
rebirth of the goddess.
And then, after this--
not long after this,
actually-- this happens
in May-- I'm sorry--
June 5th and 6th of 2012.
And then, not long
after that, we
have the, in the public's mind,
in the public eye via cinema,
the birth of Katniss
Everdeen and the rise
in the birth of the feminine
hero in the Hunger Games.
And this theoretically comes
out of the Venus transit.
And of course, the
Hunger Games is
related to the sign of
Sagittarius and Katniss
Everdeen being the spirit
of Artemis, the archer.
Again, Sagittarius, which
is opposite Gemini as it
relates to the transit of Venus.
Some interesting interplay there
between the opposite signs.
The retrograde motion
reflects reverse polarity
in traditional relating.
Now, certainly, one
could make a case that,
since the transit
of Venus in Gemini,
which represents duality,
which represents in some ways
twinning and
sameness, that we have
had a significant rise in the
cultural inner-penetration
of same sex marriages.
I think if you were to go back
prior to the transit of Venus
and look at what's happened
since then, the amount of noise
and the amount of
news noise will
result in a much more sort
of graphic and a lot more
traction in a post-transit
of Venus culture and media.
So my sense here is
that this transit
of Venus, the retrograde action
in Gemini has in some ways
catalyzed this whole notion
around same-sex marriage
and relationships.
Now, what was also quite
interesting during this time
is that-- well, of course,
this is Queen Elizabeth.
But she was having
the Silver Jubilee
at the same time as
the transit of Venus.
Now, you can't tell me
that the people that
are running this
planet, the people that
are in the circle of power,
in the matrix of control
don't have any
knowledge of astrology
because clearly the return
of the goddess, the transit
of Venus, here she is--
the, quote/unquote,
"matriarch of the planet,"
the Queen of England.
And this is one of the official
images of this Diamond Jubilee.
And what's fascinating about
it is-- what do we see?
We see the reflection
of the Queen
in the mirror, which
represents what?
Gemini.
It represents two
states, two beings,
and the reflection of which.
So not only was she tapping
into the astrological power
of the transit of
Venus, but there
is a symbolic
representation with Gemini
here in this reflection and
in this royal and official
depiction of the
Diamond Jubilee.
Now, what was also fascinating
is right after this,
during the transit of Venus,
Ray Bradbury, the author, died.
I think he died on June
6th, if I'm not mistaken.
And what was one of Ray
Bradbury's famous novels?
The Martian Chronicles.
So here we have the opposite of
the transit of Venus, and Ray
Bradbury, which is
the masculine version,
and the representation of Mars.
And this is diminishing.
It is in the
diminutive state as it
relates to Venus and the rise of
Venus and the transit of Venus.
Now, I'm not saying
that somebody decided
to pull the plug on
Ray Bradbury's life.
But in kind of a grand,
cosmological theater,
it's an interesting event that
we see the decline of Mars
and the rise of Venus within
the span of about 48 hours
during the transit of Venus.
Now, here, I wanted
to find an image that
was sort of symbolic
of Venus in Capricorn.
And so here we have
this Venusian figure,
who kind of looks a little
bit like Uma Thurman.
Doesn't it?
So we have this Venusian figure
with sort of the Botticelli,
sort of the Rubenesque
rounded curves, which
was classic form
for Venus back then.
Then, over here, we have
this interesting character.
And he kind of, in some ways,
has a Capricornian feel to him
because Capricorn
at one point in time
was this image of the sea-goat.
Right?
It was part goat and,
actually, part dolphin.
And this is part
man and part-- which
looks like-- fish arising
out of the sort of the mists
of the ocean here or the waters.
But he has a very
Capricornian, very kind
of craggy and old look.
So this, to me,
this is the marriage
of Venus in Capricorn in this
photo or in this painting.
And so what we're
going to do now
is we're going to look at some
events, which have taken place
during Venus in
Capricorn, some of which
were Venus retrograde Capricorn.
Yulia Tymoshenko.
She was, again, Venus.
Right?
The feminine.
The feminine energy.
She was in prison for
two years in Ukraine,
and she was released during
Venus in Capricorn retrograde.
Right?
Released.
Retrograde.
And her presence in
some ways catalyzed
what has taken place in Ukraine.
So whenever we
look at retrograde,
we look at other words
that are connected to it.
There's another
example that we're
going to see here
in just a moment.
This is kind of interesting.
This woman is named
Colleen LaRose,
and she went by the
name of "Jihad Jane."
Somebody's got to make
a movie of this woman.
If you read about her biography
online, it's a tragic life.
There's a lot of abuse
that's associated with her.
And eventually, what
happens-- she's American.
Eventually, what happens is she
meets a Muslim guy at a bar.
If you can imagine that.
A Muslim guy at a bar.
I don't know how it
happens, but she found him.
And he turned her on to
Islam and not only Islam,
but the, quote/unquote,
"social injustices"
that have taken place at the
hands of Muslims in a post-9/11
world.
So she became very sympathetic
to the plight of Muslims,
and she converted to Islam.
And she decided
that she was going
to be a Muslim sympathizer.
Well, during the Venus in
Capricorn cycle on January 6th,
she was sentenced to
10 years in prison
for her conspiring with,
quote/unquote, "terrorists."
But what I thought
was really interesting
was that she was born
on June 5th, 1963.
And where did we see June 5th?
Right here.
Transit of Venus.
So she actually
has, in some ways,
she has this essence,
this feminine essence
of the return of the
goddess, but here
it's kind of a negative
representation.
But we can see certainly
with Gemini two
different identities.
Right?
Jihad Jane and Colleen LaRose.
In one person, two
separate realities.
Gemini.
She was born in the Year
of the Tiger as well.
That's leopard.
That's not a tiger.
OK.
Do you recognize this face?
This is Amanda Knox.
And of course, her and her
boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito,
were charged with the murder
of Meredith Kercher in Italy.
And she spent time in
jail-- prison in Italy,
and she was "retried"
during, yes,
Venus retrograde in Capricorn.
She was retried
during that time.
And so we have a
retrial retrograde.
Right?
Tymoshenko released.
And what happened was
is she was found guilty.
Again.
However, she's
living in Seattle.
And I don't think she's going
back to Italy any time soon.
However, Raffaele Sollecito was
arrested and is now in custody.
So it's kind of an interesting
piece here, this whole concept.
Venus in Capricorn, also is
a kar-- Venus in Capricorn
is incredibly karmic.
Right?
I don't know what happened to
you during Venus in Capricorn,
but for me, Venus in
Capricorn was very powerful.
And I had to deal with
the karmic implications
of current and
past relationships.
And in this case,
so did Amanda Knox.
Now, this beautiful
woman is Monica Spears,
and she was Miss Venezuela.
She was a soap
star in Venezuela.
She actually went to, I
believe, the University
of Central Florida
here in this country.
And she was murdered during
the Venus in Capricorn.
And what I felt was
interesting about her
was that she is a Libra.
And when we talk
about Libra, Libra's
ruled by the planet Venus.
And she is, in some
ways, a modern version
of Venus or Aphrodite,
replete with her crown
chakra exploding.
Beautiful woman.
And she was-- her
and her ex-husband
and her daughter were
robbed at gunpoints
when their car broke
down in Venezuela.
So I just wanted to bring
this into the discussion
because, during this
Venus/Capricorn cycle,
we have a symbol of Venus, who,
unfortunately, lost her life.
And at that time, the
day that she died,
her sun was square,
the sun in Capricorn.
So, you know, God bless her.
Rest in peace.
Now, another
interesting thing that
took place during this
Venus transit in Capricorn--
and especially during
the retrograde piece--
is that Spain decided to
welcome back the Sephardic Jews
that they had
kicked out in 1492.
This all took place.
Again, we're talking
karmic relationships.
These are the people that,
essentially, either fled
or were asked to leave on
the heels of the Inquisition.
So based on the right of return,
Spain said, hey, come on back.
We're sorry.
We want to make
amends for our karma.
You know, we're Catholic.
We're a Catholic
nation, and we forgive.
So this took place during
Venus in Capricorn.
It didn't get a
lot of press, but I
thought it was
worthy of mentioning.
Now, I just wanted
to include this.
I think this is
an amazing picture
because, in our society
and our culture,
we are so accustomed
to a particular version
or symbol of Venus.
And while I was putting
this show together,
I decided to type
in "black Venus."
And there's a whole
collection of photographs
like this by a photographer
from Atlanta, Georgia.
And this was one
of them, and I just
thought this was a pretty
cool representation
of an alternative
version of Venus.
And I put this up on Facebook.
And there was this
African-American woman who
typed in, "You German
guys are all the same."
And I'm not even German.
I thought it was
a funny comment.
All right.
So let's shift
from Venus to Mars.
Let's talk about
Mars a little bit.
We're going from the
feminine to the masculine.
So Mars is the planet of
fire, friction, and passion.
Mars marks our vital expression
and how we direct our energy
and will.
In the realm of
personal relationships,
it allows us to manifest a
broad spectrum of emotions
based on heat.
That's what Mars does.
Where we have Mars
in our chart is
where we need to
devote our energies.
Having a conscious
stewardship of Mars
allows us to live within
the astrological parameters
of our will.
So what am I
saying, or what am I
trying to share with you
as we break that down.
Basically, the algebra,
the formula for this is
is that you need to
know where your Mars is.
If you understand where your
Mars is, what planet-- or, I'm
sorry-- what sign
it's in, you'll
have a better understanding
of your own personal energy.
Right?
So let's say you have
Mars in-- how about Virgo?
Let's say you have
Mars in Virgo.
That Mars energy is
well-placed towards service,
towards helping,
towards healing.
Virgo is a Mercurial sign.
It's a very nervous sign.
So when we attach Mars to it,
we have this dynamic Martian
will-based energy with
this Mercurial peripatetic
and at times an unstable sign.
Right?
Because Mercury is unstable.
Mercury rules Virgo, at least
in traditional astrology.
So it could be liquid.
It could be solid.
It could be stable.
It could be unstable.
So when Mars comes
together with Virgo,
it adds a certain amount
of intensity and energy
to an already Mercurial sign.
So what do we do with that?
Well, you need to stay
active with Mars in Virgo.
You've got to be able to
stay healthy, number one.
Physical fitness would
be very, very important
because you need
to run that energy.
You need to keep
that energy flowing.
You need to watch your
body, watch your health.
And guess what?
When you get really
good at that,
then you can help other people
as well because Mars in Virgo
is excellent for service
and excellent for reaching
out and not only
being of service
but seeing what's wrong.
Mars in Virgo could be
very, very diagnostic
but can also offer strategies
based on the diagnosis,
whether it's for a
sickness or an illness
or within an organization
or a corporation.
So that's one example
of Mars in Virgo.
Now, what Mars in
Virgo does not do well
is it doesn't lead well.
Mars in Virgo would
be out of place
if it was telling
people what to do.
It would be kind of a
cognitively dissonant
expression of Mars.
That would be more like Mars
in Leo or Mars in Aries.
If somebody has Mars in Leo
and they say, "Hey can you
do this?" or, "Go do this,"
people that have Mars in Leo
have a natural authority
with that Mars.
And more often than
not, people will
do what they're being
told to do or asked to do.
It's kind of the royal
"I" with Mars in Leo,
but not so with Mars in Virgo.
And there's a reason why.
Because Virgo will deliberate.
Virgo will try to come up with,
in some ways, either the most
efficient way to say
something, which might come off
as incredibly cold or
bossy to some extent,
or they may deliberate so
much about what they're
going to say so as not to
create waves that they may not
be attached to their own
personal expression and will
as it relates to Mars in Virgo.
So Mars in Virgo in some
ways needs to take an order
or needs to take the
lead from somebody else.
And once they get
that, then they
can be really good
at what they do.
You know, you want
to hand the ball off
to somebody that
has Mars in Virgo,
and say, "Here, you go do this
because you're good at it.
You can find a
solution, and you can
find a solution in the most
efficient way possible."
So they're better lieutenants.
People that have Mars in
Virgo are better lieutenants
than they are generals.
So if you have Mars in
Virgo, it's not a slight.
But if you understand the
expression of your energy
and you have the right funnel
and the right channel for it,
then you can be a
lot more effective.
And there's a whole
sort of prescription
for Mars in each sign and how
that Mars can be expressed.
So what you want
to do is you want
to find out where
your Mars is and begin
to study it and find
out what house it's in
and figure out where it's
most natural placement is.
And when you do that,
just follow your Mars
and you'll be fine.
Trust me on this.
Mars can be complex as it is
expressed through the water
signs.
This is true.
I'm going to do a little bit of
a breakdown through Mars here.
So we have Mars, which
is a fire planet.
And when you put it in
context with a water sign--
with the exception of
Scorpio, by the way--
it can be challenging.
Right?
Mars in Cancer can
be challenging.
Cancer is receptive.
Cancer is nurturing.
Cancer moves backwards.
Cancer moves sideways.
Mars moves straight ahead.
All right.
So when we have Mars in
Cancer, unless the individual
understands how to work
with that receptive energy
and then channel it
back out through Mars,
then they could be challenged.
Because if they
try to be active,
if they try to be sort of
affixed and willful-- like Mars
in Leo or even Mars in
Scorpio to a certain extent--
they won't be
really as effective.
Mars in Pisces can
be very, very poetic.
And if that Mars is in the
service of art or music
or in some kind of intense
quest for personal or religious
or spiritual exploration and
discovery and revelation,
epiphany, then that
Mars can be challenged.
A person with Mars in
Pisces, by the way,
wants to stay away from alcohol.
It's kind of a common theme
in astrology-- or drugs,
in general.
And Mars in Scorpio,
which is a water sign.
Now, Scorpio's ruler at
one point in time was Mars.
But once they found Pluto,
they shipped it off to Pluto.
So it's got a natural
placement with Mars.
Scorpio's intense.
Mars is intense.
They like each other.
So that's the one water
sign where it works.
It's relentless in earth signs.
It can be strident, rebellious,
and restless in the air signs.
So Mars and the earth signs.
We talked about Virgo.
Mars in Capricorn, that's
a great placement for Mars.
And Mars in Taurus is a
little bit on the slow side.
Mars in Taurus is like the
tortoise versus the hare.
Of course, the hare, sort
of the tortoise being
Mars in Mars in Taurus.
All right.
In air signs, it can be
very dynamic, but also
quite strident-- especially when
we talk about Mars in Libra,
which we will in a second.
When it's at home
in fire, Mars, it
has a natural and
unaffected position.
Mars in Aries.
Mars in Sagittarius.
And Mars in Leo.
Mars loves those fire signs.
And if you have Mars in a fire
sign, consider yourself lucky.
You've got a great
placement from Mars,
and you can direct your
will quite easily here
in this third-dimensional plane.
Mars is also a key indicator of
sexual expression in the chart.
An afflicted Mars can
indicate a blocked flow
with sexual and creative energy.
What I mean by that is,
is if your Mars is square
to certain planets or
if your Mars is opposed
if there's a conjunction
with certain planets, depending
upon what those planets are
and the aspect, your
Mars can be afflicted.
For instance, let's say
you have Mars conjunct
Neptune in your chart.
So you have this dynamic
kind of Mars energy,
but then, there's
Neptune, which is Piscean.
It's deep.
It's oceanic.
It's mystical.
The two don't really
work very well together.
And so Neptune can
dissipate that Mars energy.
So by understanding,
you know, not just
where Mars is in your
chart but also what
other planets are doing with it.
You can begin to diagnose your
own energy, your own passion,
and your own signal as it
relates to your personal will.
Now, we are currently
in a phase and cycle
where Mars is in Libra.
I talked about this
a little bit earlier.
So some of the things that we're
going to be seeing culturally
with Mars in Libra until it
transits out of Libra in June
is that we're going
to see kind of more
of a call towards human
rights, human expression,
the expression of
the human spirit
as this sort of beacon
of liberty and equality
and balance.
And all those things
that we would associate
with the sign of Libra, they
become very active with Mars.
And Mars is retrograde now.
So let's go back
in time and look
at some individuals who
had or have Mars in Libra.
Here we have John
Lennon, who has Mars.
Now, he's got
Mercury in Scorpio.
Can you see those Scorpio eyes?
He totally has it.
But Lennon was an activist.
He had Mars in Libra.
And when did his activism
become activated?
When he met Yoko Ono.
So he needed that other in order
to activate that Mars in Libra.
And of course, one of their
great activist moments
was when they were protesting
the war from a bed in Toronto.
Very Mars, kind of Libra deal.
Right?
With two people in
bed hanging out,
talking to all these interesting
people, including Al Capp.
If you haven't seen the movie
about John Lennon and his time
in Canada, it's
worth checking out.
Abraham Lincoln.
See?
Mars needs a cause.
That's the other thing here.
Mars in Libra needs a cause.
And John Lennon found a
cause, "Give peace a chance."
Right?
He was a peace radical.
He was active around this
whole notion of world peace.
Abraham Lincoln had a cause.
It was called "slavery."
It's called the
"abolition of slavery."
He's an Aquarius, but he found
a active placement for his Mars.
In fact, it was an epic
and historical placement
for his Mars.
So Mars in Libra actually
work for Abraham Lincoln.
And it worked for
many other people,
including this country as well.
Here's another guy with Mars
in Libra-- a little more
contemporary-- Bill Gates.
And if you've noticed
or found or followed
Bill Gates in his
post-Microsoft world and legacy,
what's he involved in?
He's involved in
nothing but causes.
He's got the Bill &
Linda Gates Foundation.
He's putting seeds-- Bill
Gates is the largest seed
bank in the world in
Greenland, by the way.
That's a cause, I suppose.
He's also very into
vaccines, and he's
very into inoculating
Africa and making sure
that Africa is malaria-free.
And unfortunately,
some of the vaccines
that the Gates Foundation
has used in Africa
haven't done too well.
But obviously, he has a cause.
Right?
Mars in Libra.
By the way, Bill
Gates' father was
on the board of
Planned Parenthood
as well as being an
executive for Boeing.
And of course,
Planned Parenthood
started by Margaret Sanger.
And Margaret Sanger has
some very interesting things
to say about different races
and the eugenic superiority
of other races.
So this is kind
of part-- I'm not
saying that he's a eugenicist.
However, when we get
into vaccines in Africa,
it gets a little--
the conversation
gets a little tricky.
Doesn't it?
Speaking of Africa,
Nelson Mandela.
Mars in Libra.
Right?
He had a cause-- in his own way.
Now, a controversial figure.
There is the Mandela who
is the hero of human rights
and the spirit of freedom,
liberation, suffering.
Right?
Then, there's another
side of Mandela,
which some historians
say is quite
intense and angry and violent
and even borders on terrorism.
So that would also indicate this
Mars in Libra kind of dynamic.
Right?
There's the liberator, and
then there's the terrorist.
That's Mars in Libra
getting worked out.
So he had Mars and Libra.
And another person with
Mars in Libra was Tesla.
And what was Tesla trying to do?
Tesla was trying to balance
and level the playing field.
He wanted to bring free energy.
In fact, he did bring
free energy to the planet.
So he has this legacy
with his Mars in Libra.
He basically wanted to be a
kind of a technological steward
and balance everything out.
And he did.
And unfortunately,
his technology
has been used--
instead of peace,
which would be one aspect
of the scale of Libra--
his technology has been used
in the application of war.
And in fact, his technology has
been transferred into the HAARP
technologies, which are
all over the planet.
Tesla technology
and, of course, what
we are experiencing with
the HAARP technology
is weather wars,
which, unfortunately,
are trying to balance our planet
in terms of this whole climate
change.
By the way, if haven't found
Dane Wigington and his work
on climate change
and geoengineering
and aerosol spraying
of the atmosphere,
I highly recommend it.
Because here, we have another
Mars in Libra kind of thing
where they're applying
this cloud cover in order
to change or stem the climate
crisis that we're dealing with,
while, at the same time, they're
exacerbating it and making
it worse.
It's a whole 'nother
Mars in Libra thing.
Well, I think that
just about does it.
We've looked at the
feminine and the masculine,
Venus and Mars, and how it
impacts our relationships, how
it impacts our energy,
and I've given you
some contemporary, current
and also past examples
of how this has played out.
And we'll do more
of this hopefully
as we do more shows inside
"The Eleventh House."
We'll get into the nuts
and bolts of astrology.
And hopefully, you can
take some of this back
and apply it to your own life.
But until then, this
is Robert Phoenix.
Thank you for joining me.
It's always a pleasure to be
here with you in "The Eleventh
House."
And until next time, take care.
[MUSIC PLAYING]